Dr. Alok A. Joshi earned his Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering from Purdue University, specializing in physics-based, data-driven, and hybrid modeling and simulation to detect and classify failures in mining trucks. His hybrid models, implemented through edge computing for diagnostics, reduced downtime of high-value assets by 10%. He holds an MS in ME from Texas A&M University and a Bachelor's in ME from College of Engineering, Pune. For his master's thesis, he developed a multivariable control system using magnetic sensors and piezo actuators to reduce vibration in satellite-mounted camera equipment & ultimately enhance raw image quality. 

As Director of Software & Electronics at Cummins and Director of Systems Engineering at Philips Healthcare, he played a key role in developing organizational capability in model-based system engineering, design, and controls, as well as electromechanical product development and its integration. He led global initiatives in supply-chain optimization, technical assessment of vendors, and value-engineering efforts. Earlier in his career, he applied modeling, simulation, and experimental verification to assess performance-cost trade-offs for emissions treatment, fuel injection, and power systems across mobility, industrial, and energy sectors. Additionally, Dr. Joshi is committed to fostering industry-university collaboration, mentoring students, and guiding industry-funded research to develop sustainable technologies.

He guides and supports technology integration projects to deliver engineering solutions for the mobility, industrial, and energy sectors. The focus is to:
1.	Lower system warranty costs by integrating sensing systems into new applications for reliable monitoring, diagnostics, and controls.
2.	Minimize prototype iterations by using system models and simulations to optimize sizing, performance, and controls.
